>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
JANUARY 26th
THE MARYLAND MALL SHOOTE
IDENTIFIED AS POLICE SEARCH FO
A MOTIVE
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
THE FINANCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTA
BENEFITS OF SOLVING AMERICA'
FOOD WASTE PROBLEM
>> I CONSERVATIVELY ESTIMATE
THAT WE SAVE $40,000 TO $50,00
A YEAR IN FOOD WASTE
>>> AND BUSINESS, BANKING AN
LEGALIZED MARIJUANA.
>> YOU HAVE A LOT OF LEGAL
COMPANIES WHO ARE FORCED T
RESORT TO THE TYPE OF SHADOW
CAPERS YOU MIGHT FIND IN A
GANGSTER MOVIE
>> NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS A
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
NEW DETAILS ABOUT THAT FATAL
SHOOTING SPREE IN A MONTANA MALL
YESTERDAY AFTERNOON.
AUTHORITIES HAVE IDENTIFIED TH
GUNMAN AS 19-YEAR-OLD DARION
MARCUS AGUILAR
THEY SAY HE ARRIVED BY TAXI AN
OPENED FIRE WITHIN A SKATE SHO
INSIDE THE MALL.
HE KILLED TWO OF THE STORE'S
EMPLOYEES BEFORE SHOOTIN
HIMSELF TO DEATH WITH THE SAME
12-GAUGE SHOTGUN HE PURCHASE
LAST MONTH
INVESTIGATORS DISCOVERED AND
DISABLED TWO CRUDE EXPLOSIVE
DEVICES IN HIS BACKPACK.
>>> IN PENNSYLVANIA POLICE
SEARCHING A COLLEGE FRESHMAN'S
HOME FARE A MARIJUANA-GROWIN
OPERATION DISCOVERED A HOMEMAD
BOMB AND BOMB-MAKING MATERIALS
A 19-YEAR-OLD RUSSIAN NATIONAL
WAS TAKEN INTO CUSTODY I
ALTOONA, PENNSYLVANIA, FRIDAY.
THE STUDENT TOLD POLICE HE
BOUGHT THE MATERIALS FOR THE
BOMB ONLINE AND ASSEMBLED TH
BOMB IN HIS ROOM
IT WAS UNCLEAR WHO IF ANYONE H
WAS TARGETING.
>>> A TEXAS HOSPITAL COMPLIE
WITH A JUDGE'S ORDER TO END LIFE
SUPPORT FOR A BRAIN DEAD WOMAN
WHO WAS PREGNANT
UNDER TEXAS LAW DOCTORS CANNOT
CUT OFF TREATMENT OF A PREG NANT
WOMAN.
A JUDGE RULED FRIDAY MUNOZ WAS
ALREADY DEAD AND SAID TH
HOSPITAL HAD BEEN MISAPPLYIN
THE LAW.
OFFICIALS AT JOHN PETER SMIT
HOSPITAL IN FT. WORTH SAID THE
HOSPITAL'S RULE WAS NOT TO MAK
OR CONTEST LAW BUT TO FOLLOW IT.
>>> MICHAEL'S CRAFT RETAILER I
WARNING CUSTOMERS THEIR CREDIT
CARDS MAY HAVE BEEN COMPROMISED.
THE COMPANY SAYS FEDERAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES ARE
INVESTIGATING FRAUDULENT USE O
SOME SHOPPERS' CARDS
NO WORD HOW MANY CUSTOMERS MAY
HAVE BEEN AFFECTED
THIS COMES IN THE WAKE OF CYBE
ATTACKS AT TWO OTHER MAJOR
RETAILERS, TARGET AND NEIMAN
MARCUS
>>> CHUCK SCHUMER SAID HE WILL
PROPOSE LEGISLATION TO HELP FUND
TRACKING DEVICES FOR AUTISTI
CHILDREN
THE BILL WILL BE CALLE
AVONTAE'S LAW TO HONOR A
14-YEAR-OLD WHO DISAPPEARE
AFTER WANDERING OFF FROM SCHOOL.
HIS REMAINS WERE DISCOVERE
THREE MONTHS LATER
SCHUMER SAID THE LEGISLATION I
SIMILAR TO A FEDERAL PROGRAM T
TRACK SENIORS WITH ALZHEIMER'S
>>> THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE DOES
NOT SEEM TO BE EASING DESPIT
POLITICAL CONCESSIONS OFFERED BY
PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH
TODAY SUPPORTERS PAID TRIBUTE TO
ONE OF THEIR OWN THEY SAY WA
KILLED BY AUTHORITIES.
BRITAIN'S CHANNEL 4 NEWS
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: TODAY SHOULD HAVE
BEEN MIKHAIL'S 26th BIRTHDAY
INSTEAD, HE WAS GIVEN A MARTYR'S
FUNERAL.
HEROES, HEROES, THEY CHANTED
THEY CARRIED HIS BODY TO
INDEPENDENCE SQUARE.
>> Translator: I THINK MIKHAIL
IS A MARTYR.
HE ACCEPTED AN ORTHODO
MARTYRDOM FOR THE FUTURE O
UKRAINE.
>> Reporter: THE YOUNG MAN WAS
ONE OF THREE PROTESTERS KILLED
IN A WEEK WHICH HAS CHANGE
EVERYTHING HERE.
AMONG THE RANKS OF THOSE WHO
HONORED HIM TODAY, THE FAR-RIGHT
GROUPS WHO ARE GAINING SUPPORT
AND CONFIDENCE AS THE SEND-OFF
CONTINUES.
THE EMBATTLED PRESIDENT,
VICTORIAN COACH VICH, MADE A
NUMBER OF CONCESSIONS LAST NIGHT
INCLUDING THE OFFER OF A TOP JOB
TO
BOXER-TURNED-OPPOSITION-LEADER
VITALI KLITSCHKO
BUT IT WASN'T ENOUGH TO HELP THE
GOVERNMENT WIN THE FIGHT
>> Translator: MANY OF OUR
REQUIREMENTS HAVE BEEN FULFILLED
BY THE PRESIDENT
AND REGARDING THE REST, WE ARE
STILL FIRM ON THOSE.
WE ARE NOT TURNING BACK.
AND WE'LL KEEP DISCUSSING AN
TRY TO FIND A COLLECTION
>> Reporter: YATSENYUK WAS
OFFERED THE POSITION OF PRIM
MINISTER BUT TWEETED THI
RESPONSE
NO DEAL, YANUKOVICH.
THEY'RE AWARE IF THEY ACCEPT THE
OFFERS THEY RISK UPSETTING THEIR
SUPPORTERS
THE MOOD TURNED UGLY AS THEY
SURROUNDED A CULTURAL BUILDING
IN THE CAPITAL
SHELTERING INSIDE, DOZENS OF
POLICE AND SECURITY OFFICERS
IN THE END, KLITSCHKO HAD TO
NEGOTIATE SAFE PASSAGE FOR THEM.
AND LEFT BEHIND IN A HURRY
THEIR SUPPLIES
>> FOR MORE ABOUT THE SITUATIO
IN THE UKRAINE WE'RE JOINED VI
SKYPE FROM KIEV BY DAVID
COVERING THE STORY FOR THE "NE
YORK TIMES."
LAST NIGHT WE SAID THE PROGRAM
HAD EXTENDED AN OLIVE BRANCH T
THE OPPOSITION BY OFFERING T
MAKE ONE OF THEM PRIME MINISTER.
BUT THAT DIDN'T WORK
>> Reporter: THEY REBUFFED THI
DEAL OFFERED BY VIKTOR
YANUKOVYCH WHO IS ON THE
DEFENSIVE.
THERE ARE PROTESTS SPREADING T
THE SOUTH AND EASTERN PARTS OF
UKRAINE.
THESE ARE VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH'
BASE OF SUPPORT.
THE PARTS OF THE COUNTRY THA
ARE ABSOLUTELY MOST SYMPATHETI
TO HIS PRO-RUSSIA POLICIES
WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS INDICATIO
THAT UNREST WILL SPREAD.
THERE'S A DANGER OF VIOLENCE
GETTING WORSE AS THE OPPOSITIO
LEADERSHIP HOLDS OUT FOR BIGGE
VICTORY IN THE DAYS AHEAD.
>> JUST TO BACK UP A COUPLE OF
STEPS FOR PEOPLE, WHAT'S THI
ALL BEEN ABOUT
TWO MONTHS AGO THERE WAS THE
POSSIBILITY OF UKRAINE HAVIN
CLOSER TIES WITH THE EU.
THEN THAT CHANGED.
>> Reporter: SURE.
IT BEGAN WITH A BROKEN PROMISE
ESSENTIALLY.
PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH HAD SAI
FOR A LONG TIME HE WOULD SIG
SWEEPING POLITICAL FREE TRAD
AGREEMENTS WITH THE EU
TOWARD THE END OF NOVEMBER H
BACKED AWAY FROM THOSE DEALS AND
THAT SET OFF THE FIRST ROUND O
PROTESTS
BUT IT'S BECOME A MUCH DEEPER,
MORE COMPLICATED SITUATION
THOSE PROTESTS WERE INFLAMED B
A VIOLENT POLICE CRACKDOWN O
NOVEMBER 30th ON PEACEFU
PROTESTERS IN KIEV
THAT SET OFF A WHOLE DIFFERENT
ROUND OF DEMONSTRATIONS.
JANUARY 16th YANUKOVYC
SUPPORTERS HAD A PACKAGE THA
SEVERELY RESTRICTED FREE SPEECH,
HAD PENALTIES AND RESTRICTIONS
THERE.
THINGS HAVE TURNED VIOLENT
EVIDENCE OF KIDNAPPINGS AN
OTHER ABUSE, EITHER BY
AUTHORITIES OR THEIR SURROGATE
WHICH HAS RAISED PUN ANGER EVE
MORE
>> WHAT WOULD THE OPPOSITION B
SATISFIED WITH
>> MANY PEOPLE ON THE STREET SAY
NOTHING SHORT OF RESIGNATION
WILL DO.
HE'S NOT OFFERED THAT BY ANY
MEANS.
THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE ANY WAY
TO IMPEACH HIM AGAIN HIS PARTY
CONTROLS PARLIAMENT AT THI
TIME
ABSENT THAT FOLKS ARE LOOKIN
FOR SWEEPING CHANGES IN TH
GOVERNMENT, REVERSAL OF THES
NEW LAWS THAT RESTRICT POLITICAL
DISSENT.
IT WILL BE AN INTERESTIN
QUESTION IN THE DAYS AHEAD HOW
MUCH MORE HE'S ABLE AND WILLIN
TO CONCEDE
>> HOW MUCH MANEUVERING ROOM
DOES HE HAVE, GIVEN RUSSIA'S
OPPOSITION
>> UKRAINE'S BEEN FACING SEVER
ECONOMIC CRISIS.
THAT WAS PART OF WHAT WAS BEHIND
DEALS WITH THE EU AND HI
RESISTANCE, INTERNATIONA
MONETARY FUND WAS DEMANDING IN
EXCHANGE FOR HELP HE MAK
DIFFICULT AUSTERITY MOVES.
RUSSIA, HOPING TO CONTINUE ITS
INFLUENCE IN UKRAINE, STEPPE
IN
PRESIDENT PUTIN, $15 BILLION I
AID.
RUSSIA HAS A LOT OF MONEY ON THE
LINE AND THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT
THIS UNREST, ABOUT WHAT THIS
MEANS AFTER RUSSIA'S INVESTMEN
IN UKRAINE'S FUTURE.
>> ALL RIGHT, DAVID, COVERIN
THE STORY FOR THE "NEW YOR
TIMES" VIA SKYPE FROM KIEV
THANKS SO MUCH
>>> THE SYRIAN PEACE TALKS I
GENEVA, WOMEN AND CHILDREN WIL
NOWING ALLOWED TO LEAVE HOMS
WHERE GOVERNMENT FORCES HAVE
BEEN ATTACKING REBELS.
THE CITY WAS ONE OF THE FIRST TO
RISE UP AGAINST THE REGIME O
BASHAR AL ASSAD.
800 FAMILIES ARE SAID TO B
TRAPPED WITHOUT REGULAR ACCESS
TO FOOD, MEDICINE AND OTHE
NECESSITIES.
THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REBEL
HAVE YET TO TALK ABOUT THE MOS
DIFFICULT ISSUE FACING THEM,
WHETHER ASSAD WILL REMAIN IN
POWER.
>>> A CHINESE ACTIVIST WHO
CAMPAIGNED AGAINST CORRUPTIO
WAS SENTENCED TO FOUR YEARS IN
PRISON TODAY, CONVICTED OF
DISRUPTING PUBLIC ORDER BEFORE
BEING SENTENCED REPORTEDLY SAI
"THE LAST SHRED OF DIGNITY I
CHINESE LAW WAS DESTROYE
TODAY.
A CRACKDOWN OF DISSIDENTS HA
BEEN CONDEMNED BY HUMAN RIGHTS
GROUPS AND CRITICIZED BY THE
U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
OUR ORIGINAL IN-DEPTH REPORTS.
TONIGHT WE LOOK AT A PROBLEM
THAT IS PART ENVIRONMENTAL AND
PART ECONOMIC.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT FOOD WASTE
THE NUMBERS PREDICTABLY AR
IMPRECISE BUT BY EVERY
ACCOUNTING MILLIONS OF TONS OF
WASTED FOOD ENDS UP IN LANDFILLS
EVERY YEAR
NOW MORE THAN EVER, EFFORTS AR
UNDER WAY TO CURB FOOD WASTE AND
SOME SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS, SOM
BUSINESSMEN, AND SOME FARMER
HAVE DEVISED WAYS TO MAKE MONE
DOING IT
NEWSHOUR REPORTS FROM MARTIN
BURG, WEST VIRGINIA.
>> THESE ARE FOOD SCRAPS
RATHER THAN PUTTING THEM IN TH
TRASH, I'D RATHER PUT THEM IN MY
COMPOST AREA
>> Reporter: BARBARA HARTMAN I
A REGISTERED DIETICIAN WHO LIVES
IN RURAL WEST VIRGINIA
SHE GREW UP APPRECIATING THE
VALUE OF FOOD.
>> I DON'T LIKE TO WASTE FOOD.
IT'S BEEN INGRAINED IN ME SINC
I WAS A CHILD.
MY GRANDFATHER LIVED THROUGH THE
DEPRESSION AND HE WOULD ALWAYS
BUG US ABOUT CLEANING OU
PLATES
MY PARENTS WOULD ECHO THAT
>> Reporter: HARTMAN IS PART O
A GROWING NUMBER OF PEOPLE
TRYING DIFFERENT METHODS T
REDUCE FOOD WASTE AT HOME.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE THROW THE
GREENS ON THE BEETS AWAY BUT
THEY'RE DELICIOUS.
SO I SAVE THEM, PUT THEM IN TH
PAN.
THERE'S LESS WASTE THAT WAY.
I LIKE TO FREEZE THINGS INSTEA
OF THROWING THEM OUT
THIS IS A PIECE OF TURKEY PO
PIE FROM THE HOLIDAY MEAL THAT I
STUCK IN THE FREEZER
OTHERWISE, IT WOULD HAVE GONE IN
THE COMPOST.
>> Reporter: HARTMAN'S NOT ONL
TRYING TO REDUCE WASTE AT HOME
SHE'S TAKEN HER PHILOSOPHY T
WORK
SHE'S A CHIEF OF NUTRITION AND
FOOD SERVICE AT THE VETERANS
AFFAIRS MEDICAL CENTER I
MARTINS BURG, WEST VIRGINIA,
WHERE SHE'S IN CHARGE OF SERVING
1,500 MEALS A DAY.
WHAT WAS THE FOOD SITUATION LIKE
HERE WHEN YOU FIRST CAME TO WORK
HERE
>> WHEN I FIRST BECAME CHIEF O
THE SERVICE WE WERE THROWING ALL
THE FOOD WASTE INTO THE TRASH.
WHICH WAS THEN GOING TO TH
LANDFILL
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO TH
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
MORE THAN 36 MILLION TONS OF
FOOD WASTE GOES TO LANDFILLS
EVERY YEAR
AND THE NATURAL RESOURCE
DEFENSE COUNCIL, ONE OF TH
NATION'S MOST POWERFUL
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS, SAYS
THAT'S HARMFUL TO TH
ENVIRONMENT.
ACCORDING TO THE NRDC, FOOD NO
REPRESENTS THE BIGGEST COMPONENT
OF SOLID MUNICIPAL WASTE THA
MAKES ITS WAY TO LANDFILLS
FOOD WASTE CONVERTS TO METHANE
A GREENHOUSE GAS AT LEAST 25
TIMES MORE POWERFUL IN GLOBA
WARMING THAN CARBON DIOXIDE.
IT'S ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS LIKE
THIS THAT ENCOURAGED BARBARA
HARTMAN AND HER TEAM TO TAKE
ACTION
IS SIX YEARS AGO, THEY STARTED
TO IMPLEMENT WHAT THEY CALL
GREEN KITCHEN INITIATIVE
>> OUR GOAL IS TO BE A
ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE AS
WE CAN BE.
AND TO ALSO ALSO HAVE GREA
FOOD
>> Reporter: BARBARA TURNED TO
TECHNOLOGY, INVESTING MONEY IN A
TRACKING SYSTEM CALLED LEA
PASS
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF IN SI
MONTHS
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS.
EVERY DAY, HARTMAN'S STAFF
WEIGHS AND RECORDS THE AMOUNT OF
FOOD WASTED WHEN PREPARING
MEALS.
THEY ALSO MEASURE THE WASTE FROM
UNTOUCHED LEFTOVER MEALS
>> I'M WEIGHING OUR WASTE TRIM
THAT COMES FROM THE VEGETABL
PREP DEPARTMENT.
>> Reporter: LEAN PASS GENERATES
DATA ON WHAT SPECIFIC FOOD I
BEING WASTED
>> THIS SHOWS THE TOP TEN FOOD
ITEMS THAT WE WASTED B
CATEGORY
I CAN SEE THAT COOKE
VEGETABLES, WE WENT UP QUITE A
BIT IN OUR WASTE
SO IT DOES HELP ME TO DETERMIN
THAT, OKAY, NEXT WEEK WE DO NEED
TO ORDER LESS OF CERTAIN ITEMS
>> FOOD IS MONEY
IT'S REALLY CRITICAL THAT WE
RECORD DATA ABOUT IT AND WE KNOW
WHAT WE'RE WASTING
>> Reporter: ANDREW SHACKMAN I
THE PRESIDENT AND CO-FOUNDER O
LEAN PASS.
A GRADUATE OF STANFORD
UNIVERSITY, HE HAS A BACKGROUN
IN TECHNOLOGY.
>> I'M PASSIONATE ABOUT THE FOOD
WASTE PROBLEM BECAUSE I CAME T
IT INITIALLY AS A VERY RATIONA
BUSINESS THINKER, APPROACHIN
THIS AS AN ECONOMIC PROBLEM.
THERE'S A FINANCIAL OPPORTUNIT
WHERE IT MADE NO SENSE TO BE
INEFFICIENT.
>> Reporter: SHACKMAN IS ONE O
A GROWING NUMBER OF SOCIAL
ENTREPRENEURS TRYING TO MAKE
MONEY AND DO THE RIGHT THING T
REDUCE FOOD WASTE.
>> AND I FOUND THAT I GOT OUT OF
BED EVERY DAY WITH A PURPOSE AND
A MISSION THAT WAS DRIVEN BY
IMPACTING THOSE THINGS
YES, ABOUT WANT TO BUILD A GREAT
BUSINESS
BUT WHAT'S EXCITING TO US IS
ABOUT MAKING A CHANGE.
>> Reporter: SO FAR, HE SOLD HIS
SYSTEM TO MORE THAN 150 LARG
INSTITUTIONS
LIKE COLLEGES, HOSPITALS, AN
HOTELS AROUND THE COUNTRY.
IN AN EFFORT TO ATTRACT SMALLE
BUSINESSES LIKE RESTAURANTS,
LEAN PASS NOW CHARGES ABOUT $150
TO $1,000 A MONTH, DEPENDING O
THE LEVEL OF SERVICE PROVIDED.
>> WHAT LEAN PASS DOES IS WE
HELP PEOPLE UNDERSTAND WHA
THEY'RE PUTTING IN THE GARBAGE
SO THAT THEY CAN THEN MAKE
CHANGES TO PRODUCTION, T
PURCHASING, AND TO MENUS SO IN
THE FUTURE THEY DON'T HAVE THA
WASTE AGAIN.
>> Reporter: SHACKMAN'S COMPAN
IS MAKING A PROFIT
AND ITS CLIENTS ARE SAVING
MONEY.
>> I CONSERVATIVELY ESTIMATE
THAT WE SAVE $40,000 TO $50,00
A YEAR IN FOOD WASTE
>> Reporter: IN THE LAST FEW
YEARS, OTHER COMPANIES HAV
SPRUNG UP TO TACKLE THE FOOD
WASTE PROBLEM WHILE ALSO TRYIN
TO MAKE A PROFIT
STARTUPS LIKE FOOD COWBOY AN
CROP MOBSTER CONNECT FOO
SUPPLIERS WHO HAVE EXCESS FRES
PRODUCE TO ORGANIZATIONS THA
FEED PEOPLE IN NEED.
CUTTING WASTE AND CHARGING A
SMALL COMMISSION ON TH
TRANSACTION.
ANOTHER COMPANY, DAILY TABLE
WANTS TO MAKE MONEY ON THE FAC
THAT MOST GROCERY STORES CAN
ONLY SELL PERFECT-LOOKING FRUITS
AND VEGETABLES
THE COMPANY WANTS TO SEL
BRUISED AND OVERSIZED PRODUCE AT
DISCOUNTED PRICES.
BACK IN WEST VIRGINIA, JUST 15
MILES FROM THE VA MEDICA
CENTER, A LOCAL FARMER CAM PAB
HAS FOUND A WAY TO MAKE MONE
AND REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF FOO
GOING INTO LANDFILLS
ON HIS FARM HE GROWS CROPS AND
RAISES LIVESTOCK
BUT ALSO BUILT A THRIVIN
COMPOSTING BUSINESS.
THE VA MEDICAL CENTER PAYS HIM
TO PICK UP LEFTOVER FOOD SCRAP
EVERY TWO WEEKS.
HE TRUCKS THIS TO HIS COMPOS
HEAP WHERE IT SUPPLEMENTS OVER
OTHER NICK WASTE THAT WILL
DECOMPOSE OVER TIME.
>> WE'RE CONVERTING WASTE INTO A
USABLE PRODUCT THAT GROW
ANOTHER CROP
IN OTHER WORDS, WHAT YOU SAW PUT
IN THERE WAS SOME SORT OF CROP
NOW ONCE PROCESSED INTO COMPOST,
THEN WE'LL GROW OTHER CROPS.
>> Reporter: HE USES THE
NUTRIENT-RICH COMPOST IN PLACE
OF COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER, SAVING
HIM $50,000 A YEAR
>> IT'S PART OF TH
DIVERSIFICATION THAT WE'VE DON
WHICH MAKES US MORE PROFITABLE
>> Reporter: THANKS TO THI
UNIQUE PARTNERSHIP AND OTHER
EFFORTS THE VA MEDICAL CENTE
HAS MADE TO REDUCE FOOD WASTE,
HARTMAN AND HER TEAM RECEIVED AN
AWARD FROM THE WHITE HOUSE I
>> BEFORE WE STARTED OUR WASTE
WATCHERS PROGRAM, OUR GREE
KITCHEN, ALL OUR FOOD WASTE WA
GOING INTO THE LANDFILL.
NOW WE'VE REDUCED IT TO WHER
THERE'S 5% TO 10%.
>> Reporter: BUT ADVOCATES SAY
THERE IS MUCH WORK THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE AROUND THE COUNTRY T
ADDRESS WHAT IS AN ENORMOU
PROBLEM.
>> IN THE UNITED STATES THERE'
FOOD WASTED AT EVERY STEP OF THE
CHAIN.
>> Reporter: PETER LANER IS TH
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF TH
NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENS
COUNCIL.
HE SAYS THE GOVERNMENT I
STARTING TO PAY ATTENTION.
>> EPA, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE, HAVE ALL STARTE
PROGRAMS TO TRY TO ADDRESS FOO
WASTE, TO TRY TO BEGIN T
EDUCATE PEOPLE ABOUT THAT.
>> Reporter: ONE AREA HI
ORGANIZATION WOULD LIKE TH
GOVERNMENT TO FOCUS ON I
REGULATING FOOD DATE LABELING.
THOSE DATES STAMPED ON PRODUCT
YOU BUY OFTEN PROVID
INFORMATION FOR WHEN FOOD IS A
ITS BEST QUALITY, NOT THE DATE
THAT A PRODUCT HAS GONE BAD AN
IS SUPPOSED TO BE TOSSED OUT
>> WHEN PEOPLE ARE ENCOURAGED TO
USE THEIR NOSE RATHER THAN JUS
LOOK AT THE DATE
ACTUALLY TAKE A TASTE AND SE
WHETHER IT IS STILL GOOD
THAT CAN MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE
>> Reporter: LANER SAY
CURTAILING FOOD WASTE MAY BE
EASIER THAN IT SEEMS
HE SAYS THAT'S BECAUSE ALMOS
HALF THE FOOD IN THIS COUNTR
GOES THROUGH SIX MAJOR
RETAILERS.
WALMART, SAFE WAY, KROGER,
COSTCO, TARGET, AND SUPER VALUE.
>> AND SO IT'S A HALF DOZE
COMPANIES WHO HAVE A TREMENDOU
OPPORTUNITY, IF THEY CHANGE SOME
OF THEIR POLICIES, INCLUDING
PRESSURE THEY PUT ABOU
EXPIRATION DATES, HOW THEY
DISPLAY FOOD, WHAT THEY DO WIT
FOOD THEY'RE THROWING OUT,
PUTTING IT INTO COMPOSTING O
FEEDING IT INTO ANIMALS INSTEA
OF PUTTING IT IN LANDFILL.
IT'S A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER
OF ACTORS WHO COULD MAKE A BIG
BIG DIFFERENCE
SO NRDC AND OTHERS ARE WORKING
WITH THEM BECAUSE THEY CAN ALS
SAVE MONEY AT IT
>> Reporter: AS FOR BARBAR
HARTMAN, SHE HAS PLANS TO EXPAND
HER INITIATIVE
AND HOPES TO TELL OTHERS IN TH
COMMUNITY HOW THEY CAN PUT THESE
TYPES OF PROGRAMS INTO PLACE
>> WHEN IT'S ALL SAID AND DONE
WHEN I'M IN MY SENIOR GOLDEN
YEARS, I'LL BE ABLE TO FEEL LIKE
I DID THE BEST I COULD
AND THAT MY CONTRIBUTIONS AD
UP
>>> SEE HOW ONE OF THE MOS
AFFLUENT COUNTIES IN THE NATIO
IS CUTTING FOOD WASTE WHILE ALSO
HELPING HUNGRY KIDS.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> WE THOUGHT WE'D SPENT TIME
TALKING ABOUT WHETHER LEGA
MARIJUANA BUSINESSES SHOULD HAVE
ACCESS TO THE NATION'S BANKS
IT'S A TOPIC THAT ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER RAISED A FEW
DAYS AGO
WE'RE JOINED FROM WASHINGTON
TONIGHT BY ALEX ALTMAN OF "TIME"
MAGAZINE
WHAT DID THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE SAY?
>> WELL, ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER HAS SAID THAT AT SOME
POINT VERY SOON, THE DEPARTMEN
WILL BE ISSUING GUIDELINES THA
WILL HOPEFULLY EASE SOME OF TH
QUESTIONS THAT BANKS HAVE IN
REGARDS TO BEING ABLE TO
TRANSACT LEGAL MARIJUANA
COMPANIES, BOTH IN COLORADO,
WHICH ON JANUARY 1st BECAME TH
FIRST STATE IN THE WORLD T
CREATE A LEGAL RECREATIONA
MARKET FOR MARIJUANA, AS WELL AS
THE 20 OTHER STATES PLUS
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA THAT PERMIT
MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
>> RIGHT NOW, ALL THES
BUSINESSES ALL OVER THE COUNTR
ARE DEALING SOLELY IN CASH
WHICH MEANS THAT, WHAT, THEY
STORE IT IN A WAREHOUS
SOMEWHERE?
>> SOLELY OR MOSTLY IN CASH,
WHICH MEANS YOU HAVE A LOT O
LEGAL COMPANIES WHO ARE FORCED
TO RESORT TO THE TYPE OF SHADOWY
CAPERS THAT YOU MIGHT FIND IN
GANGSTER MOVIE
I'VE TALKED TO OWNERS IN DENVE
DISPENSARIES WHO LEAVE SECRE
OFFSITE WAREHOUSES TO STOR
CASH, WHO CARRY AROUND TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS ON THEI
PERSON EVERY DAY, WHO ARE FORCED
TO FOOT TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
DOLLAR TAX BILLS IN STACKS O
20s.
IT IS A SITUATION FOR THEM THA
PRESENTS CHALLENGES BOTH
DIFFICULT IN TERMS OF CASH
MANAGEMENT AND DANGEROUS I
TERMS OF PERSONAL SAFETY
>> WHY CAN'T THEY JUST TAKE TO
IT A BANK?
WHAT'S THE BANK GOING TO GET I
TROUBLE FOR?
>> WELL, BECAUSE MARIJUANA I
STILL A SO-CALLED SCHEDULE 1
DRUG ON PAR WITH DRUGS SUCH AS
COCAINE OR ECSTASY, BANKS THAT
TRANSACT WITH LEGAL MARIJUAN
BUSINESSES ARE STILL AT RISK O
RUNNING AFOUL OF FEDERAL MONEY
LAUNDERING STATUTES.
SO THEY COULD SURRENDER THEI
CHARTER, OR EVEN IN THE EVENT OF
DOJ GUIDELINES, THEY COULD BE AT
RISK OF PROSECUTION BY SOME SORT
OF ZEALOUS LAW ENFORCEMENT
IT IS NOT -- A YELLOW LIGH
RATHER THAN CART CHARGE TO D
THESE TRANSACTIONS
>> WHAT ABOUT STATE BANKS IN A
STATE THAT LEGALIZED IT, FOR
EXAMPLE COLORADO, COULDN'T A
STATE BANK BE COMPLETELY WITHI
THE LAW TO TAKE THAT MONEY
>> IT'S POSSIBLE
SOME OF THESE INDUSTRY OUT THERE
HAS BEEN SCHEMING FOR A SOLUTION
TO THIS PROBLEM.
THEY'VE DISCUSSED EVERYTHING
FROM STATE CHARTER BANKED AS YOU
MENTIONED TO THE DIGITAL
CURRENCY BIT COIN.
BUT THEY HAVE SORT OF -- THE
BELIEVE THAT UNLESS THIS IS
SITUATION THAT IS SOLVED AT
NATIONAL LEVEL, IT IS -- BECAUSE
BANKS ARE RISK AVERSE, IT WILL
BE PROBLEMATIC FOR BASICS TO
TRANSACT
>> ALEX ALTMAN OF "TIME"
MAGAZINE, THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND SUNDAY."
>>> NOW SOME OF YOUR THOUGHT
ABOUT US
COMMENTS WE RECEIVE FROM VIEWERS
LIKE YOU AFTER OUR BROADCAST
LAST EVENING
NOT SURPRISINGLY, MOST OF YO
WROTE US ABOUT WILLIAM BRAGHAM'S
LOOK AT IRAN FROM THE INSIDE
A REPORT THAT INCLUDED IMAGE
FROM INSIDE A HOSPITAL
STORES SELLING FOOD AN
COMPUTERS.
AND A POLITICAL DISSIDENT'
HOME
ARASH, AN IRANIAN-AMERICAN
COMPLAINED OUR REPORT WA
SHALLOW AND UNDERSTATED TH
DAMAGE AMERICAN SANCTIONS HAVE
DONE TO THE IRANIAN PEOPLE
HE SAID SANCTIONS HAVE RAISE
THE COST OF LIVING TO THE POIN
PEOPLE HAVE MUCH LESS PROTEIN IN
THEIR DIET AND CHILDREN'
NUTRITION IS A CONCERN
BUT MOST OF YOU PRAISED TH
REPORT WHICH OFFERED IMAGES OF
IRANIAN LIFE RARELY SEEN O
AMERICAN TELEVISION.
SHARON CALLED OUR PIECE INFORMTY
AND WELL DONE, A BIT DIFFERENT
THAN THE PICTURE I HAD IN MY
MIND'S EYE ABOUT COMMERCE IN
IRAN
SHELLEY SAID ON FACEBOOK THA
SHE WOULD LOVE TO SEE MORE
IN-DEPTH STORIES ABOUT REGULAR
PEOPLE AND FAMILIES IN IRAN AN
HOW THINGS ARE ON A DAY-TO-DAY
BASIS.
I PERSONALLY SEE WAR AND
EXTREMISTS A LOT AND WOULD LIK
TO SEE THE OTHER SIDE.
ANOTHER REPLIED, I'M PERSIAN AND
IT'S THE TRUTH WHAT YOU SEE IN
THE MEDIA ISN'T THE TRUTH ABOU
IRAN, IT'S ALL BECAUSE O
POLITICS
IRANIANS ARE LIKE OTHER PEOPLE
IN THE WORLD, FRIENDLY PEOPL
WHO LIVE IN A PEACEFUL WAY A
YOU DO
MICHAEL ADDED, THEY'VE GOT A LOT
MORE IN COMMON WITH US THAN MOST
OF THE COUNTRIES IN THE MIDDLE
EAST
WONDER WHY THAT'S NEVE
REPORTED
ON TWITTER WE HEARD FROM PAU
HANCOCK WHO THOUGHT, REALL
FASCINATING, SHOWS HOW LITTL
YOU CAN KNOW ABOUT ANYWHER
BEFORE YOU ACTUALLY GET THERE.
SEND YOUR THOUGHTS THROUGH THE
COMMENT SECTIONS BELOW OUR
STORIES @NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG, O
FACEBOOK, OR TWEET US @NEWSHOUR.
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW ON THE "NEWSHOUR.
THE LATEST FROM GENEVA AND THE
SYRIAN PEACE TALKS THERE
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
>> "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" IS
MADE POSSIBLE BY LEWIS B. AN
LOUISE HIRSCHFELD KOMEN.
JUDY AND JOSH WESTIN
JOYCE V. HALE.
THE WALLACH FAMILY IN MEMORY O
MIRIAM AND IRA D. WALLACH.
BERNARD AND IRENE SCHWARTZ
ROSLYN P. WALTER
CORPORATE FUNDING PROVIDED B
MUTUAL OF AMERICA.
DESIGNING CUSTOMIZED, INDIVIDUAL
AND GROUP RETIREMENT PRODUCTS.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE YOUR RETIREMENT
COMPANY.
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT IS PROVIDED
BY -
AND BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.